# Report 1 - MU5MES01 - 2022/23
*C. Lestringant, D.Duhamel, C.Maurini, S. Neukirch*

The key goals of the first part of the class is to
 - Be able to implement a finite element solver for linear elasticity.
 - Be able to perform a convergence analysis.
 - Be able to perform parametric studies.

Your report should summarize and present synthetically your work on these items. We give below some hints on how to write the report. Personal analyses and comments are particularly welcomed. Your are not obliged to follow the following format step and by step. But you should include in your report the key concepts and results.


**Some suggestions:**
 - Write concisely and effectively.
 - Comment your results.
 - The quality of the figures is important (axes labels, etc).
 - Report only the minimal number of figures (of excellent quality) to effectively communicate your results.
 - You can write in English or French.
 - Use Latex for writing your report.


**Important informations:**
 - Deadline: For the final version **Thursday 20 october 2022, 23h00**. We strongly suggest to have a preliminary version of the codes available for Friday 14 october 13h.
 - **The maximal length of the report is 4 pages. **
 - To submit your report, an electronic version should be submitted on moodle: https://moodle-sciences-22.sorbonne-universite.fr/mod/assign/view.php?id=88277
- you work in groups of two students. Please select your group here: https://moodle-sciences-22.sorbonne-universite.fr/mod/choicegroup/view.php?id=88287&action=delchoicegroup&sesskey=gul4ZcEBWM 

 Proceed as follows:
   - **Only one of the two students** of your group will submit the report to https://moodle-sciences-22.sorbonne-universite.fr/mod/assign/view.php?id=88277.
   - The submission a single `zip` file  named `MES01-CR1-studentname1-studentname2.zip` including 
     1. the pdf of your report named as `MES01-CR1-studentname1-studentname2.pdf` (file with a different naming scheme will not be accepted and evaluated).
     2. the source files (either *.py and *ipynb) used to obtain the results listed in your report. Python files should be working automatically without any intervention (no errors are allowed). A figure in your pdf report _not_ generated by these files will not be evaluated.
 - We will evaluate the quality of the presentation (language, typesetting, and figures). Being able to effectively communicate your results is important for your future.

# Linear elasticity and convergence analysis

## Part I - Eshelby problem, the disk inclusion

We consider the problem presented in the notebook `eshelby_given_to_class.ipynb`


Your report should include at least:
- A variational formulation of the problem.
- The statement of the type of discretisation used to solve the problem (type of finite elements).
- A figure with a comparison between the analytical solution, with a tentative discussion of the results. It is your responsibility to choose the most appropriate quantity to plot. Note that the analytical solution give a very simple expression for the shear strain in the inclusion.
- A figure reporting the convergence analysis for linear and quadratic elements. Comment the results on the convergence rate observed in your numerical experiments, is it behaving as usual?
- Comments and conclusions (the `Questions` in the notebook given in class are possible hints to produce pertinent comments and remarks)

Any pertinent complement to the previous analysis will be appreciated in the grading and will be the object of discussion at the final oral examination.

**Ideas for advanced study for part I**

Perform this part only if you feel your level sufficient advanced; this part is not required if you are aiming at grades <= 12/20.

- Perform the convergence analysis for different values of the Poisson ratio. Report the convergence plot for $\nu=0.4999999$ and comment the results.
- Analyze the influence of the external radius `R_mat` on the values of the shear strain (and its deviation) inside the inclusion.
- How does the mean shear strain in the inclusion vary with the ratio E_incl / E_mat ?
- Perform the convergence analysis for different ratio between the young moduli of the matrix and of the inclusion and comment the results.
- Consider the case of an elliptical inclusion and perform the convergence analysis for different aspect ratio of the ellipse and comment the results.

# References 
[1] Jørgen S. Dokken, The FEniCSx tutorial, https://jorgensd.github.io/dolfinx-tutorial/index.html, Convergence analysis: https://jorgensd.github.io/dolfinx-tutorial/chapter4/convergence.html

[2] B.Szabó, I.Babuška, Introduction to Finite Element Analysis: Formulation, Verification and Validation, Wiley 2011, ISBN: 978-0-470-97728-6

```
